feat: update /staking/withdrawals page with max-eb content (#17274)
ethereum/ethereum-org-website: public/content/staking/withdrawals/index.md

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Validator accounts are required to provide a withdrawal address before they can access and withdraw accrued network rewards, or process a full withdrawal upon exiting staking.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title="I operate a validator. Where can I find more information about managing the withdrawal process?"
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title="Why can a validator's withdrawal address only be set once?"
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
eventAction="Why can a validator's withdrawal address only be set once?"
```

Author: May leave this as-is to not disrupt existing metrics.. cc: @konopkja let me know if you have a preference

Author: Okay, per @konopkja will update all of these

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A validator's withdrawal address credentials can be set to point to either a smart contract (controlled by its code), or an externally owned account (EOA, controlled by its private key). Currently, these accounts have no way to communicate a message back to the consensus layer that would signal a change of validator credentials, and adding this functionality would add unnecessary complexity to the protocol.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title="How do I withdraw from staking if I stake through a provider, staking pool, or participate with liquid staking tokens?"
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
eventAction="How do I withdraw from staking if I stake through a provider, staking pool, or participate with liquid staking tokens?"
```

Author: cc: @konopkja Same question as above

Reviewer: > A maximum of 16 withdrawals can be processed in a single block. At that rate, 115,200 validator withdrawals can be processed per day (assuming no missed slots). As noted above, validators without eligible withdrawals will be skipped, decreasing the time to finish the sweep.
> Expanding this calculation, we can estimate the time it will take to process a given number of withdrawals:
> .....
> As you see this slows down as more validators are on the network. An increase in missed slots could slow this down proportionally, but this will generally represent the slower side of possible outcomes. 

This question either needs to be changed (to something more like 'how frequently will rewards be automatically swept to my wallet', but phrased in a more accessible way), or the answer needs to be updated to include 1) breakdown between auto-available in wallet (type 1) vs. compounding and reward is requested (type 2) + 2) account for both queue and sweep in frequency evaluation. 
WDYT best path is?

Author: I think the header update is a reasonable start. Type 2 does complicate it since those will basically be skipped every time (practically speaking). Could optionally consider a note on that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Setting a validator's execution layer withdrawal address is permanent change to the validator's credentials on the consensus layer. There is no way to update the consensus layer credentials once they are registered. 
```

Author: Hm, worth keeping the note on "This means the old credentials will no longer work?" If you set up with BLS keys, the "withdrawal" portion of that pair is effectively dead once you assign an execution layer withdrawal address, but perhaps this isn't a necessary detail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users seeking flexible withdrawal management can set a smart contract wallet capable of key rotation (such as a [Safe](https://safe.global/)) as the validator's withdrawal address, effectively allowing the ultimate recipient EOA to be updated. If a user has already set an EOA as the withdrawal credential, they must initiate a full exit to recover their staked ETH and then use those funds to activate a new validator with different credentials.
```

Reviewer: > Whether a given validator is eligible for a withdrawal or not is determined by the state of the validator account itself. No user input is needed at any given time to determine whether an account should have a withdrawal initiated or not—the entire process is done automatically by the consensus layer on a continuous loop. 

I think this needs to be updated to reflect type 1 vs. type 2?

Reviewer: Or, the question should be updated to reflect that it is about when a validator is eligible to get an automatic withdrawal (not how to reward distributions work in general)

Author: Hm.. well type-1 vs type-2 should work the same way, just different max-eb. Either way, open to improvements.

Reviewer: How do automatic sweeps work

Author: ```suggestion
title="Does claiming network rewards (partial withdrawals) happen automatically?"
```

alt: Leslie the rhino with her staking rewards
sidebarDepth: 2
summaryPoints:
  - Validator operators must provide a withdrawal address to enable withdrawals
  - Legacy validators have excess balance over 32 ETH automatically withdrawn every few days
  - Compounding validators earn rewards on their full balance up to 2048 ETH
  - Validators who fully exit staking will receive their remaining balance
---

**Staking withdrawals** refer to transfers of ETH from a validator account on Ethereum's consensus layer (the Beacon Chain), to the execution layer where it can be transacted with.

How withdrawals work depends on your validator's withdrawal credential type:

- **Legacy validators (Type 1)**: Excess balance over 32 ETH is automatically and regularly sent to the withdrawal address linked to the validator. Rewards above 32 ETH do not contribute to the validator's weight on the network.
- **Compounding validators (Type 2)**: Rewards compound into the validator's effective balance up to 2048 ETH, increasing the validator's weight and earning more rewards. Only balance exceeding 2048 ETH is automatically swept.

> Users can also **exit staking entirely**, unlocking their full validator balance.

Reviewer: Not 100% sure that this level of detail is helpful at this stage, but wondering if it might help to be very clear that this requires a few steps. Defer to your judgement on this edit. 
```suggestion
Users can also **exit staking entirely**, submitting a transaction to withdraw, waiting for any withdrawal queue timeline (based on network demand), and unlocking their full validator balance.
```

## Staking rewards {#staking-rewards}

How rewards are handled depends on the validator's credential type:

> **Legacy validators (Type 1)** have an effective balance capped at 32 ETH. Any balance above 32 ETH earned through rewards does not contribute to principal or increase the weight of this validator on the network, and is automatically withdrawn as a reward payment every few days. Aside from providing a withdrawal address one time, these rewards do not require any action from the validator operator. This is all initiated on the consensus layer, thus no gas (transaction fee) is required at any step.

Reviewer: edit to overly-financial language 
```suggestion
**Legacy validators (Type 1)** have an effective balance capped at 32 ETH. Any balance above 32 ETH received as network rewards does not contribute to the effective balance or increase the weight of this validator on the network, and these rewards are automatically withdrawn to the validator's dedicated withdrawal address every few days. Aside from providing a withdrawal address one time, claiming these rewards does not require any action from the validator operator. This is all initiated on the consensus layer, thus no gas (transaction fee) is required at any step.
```

> **Compounding validators (Type 2)** can have an effective balance anywhere between 32 and 2048 ETH. Rewards earned by these validators compound into their effective balance, increasing the validator's weight and future rewards. Automatic sweeps only occur for balance exceeding 2048 ETH. To withdraw rewards below the 2048 ETH threshold, compounding validators must trigger a partial withdrawal manually from the execution layer, which does require gas.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Compounding validators (Type 2)** can have an effective balance anywhere between 32 and 2048 ETH. Network rewards received by these validators compound into their effective balance, increasing the validator's weight and potential to receive future rewards. Automatic sweeps only occur for balance exceeding 2048 ETH. To withdraw rewards below the 2048 ETH threshold, compounding validators must trigger a partial withdrawal manually from the execution layer, which does require gas.
```

<AlertEmoji text="⚠️"/>
<AlertContent>
<AlertDescription>
**Each validator account can only be assigned a single withdrawal address, one time.** Once an address is chosen and submitted to the consensus layer, this cannot be undone or changed again. Double-check ownership and accuracy of the address provided before submitting.
</AlertDescription>
</AlertContent>
</Alert>

> There is **no threat to your funds in the meantime** for not providing this, assuming your mnemonic/seed phrase has remained safe offline, and has not been compromised in any way. Failure to add withdrawal credentials will simply leave the ETH locked in the validator account as it has been until a withdrawal address is provided.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have not yet provided a withdrawal address for your validator account, there is **no threat to your funds in the meantime**, assuming your mnemonic/seed phrase has remained safe offline, and has not been compromised in any way. Failure to add withdrawal credentials will simply leave the ETH locked in the validator account until a withdrawal address is provided.
```

With compounding enabled:

- Rewards increase the validator's effective balance in 1 ETH increments (subject to a small [hysteresis buffer](https://www.attestant.io/posts/understanding-validator-effective-balance/)), earning more rewards over time
- Automatic sweeps only occur for balance exceeding 2048 ETH
- Partial withdrawals below the 2048 ETH threshold must be triggered manually from the execution layer (this costs gas)
- Multiple validators can be **consolidated** into a single compounding validator, reducing operational overhead

<Alert variant="warning">
<AlertEmoji text="⚠️"/>
<AlertContent>
<AlertDescription>
**Converting from Type 1 to Type 2 withdrawal credentials is irreversible.** Use the [Staking Launchpad](https://launchpad.ethereum.org/validator-actions) as the official tool for this conversion. For more details on the conversion process, risks, and consolidation, see the [MaxEB deep-dive](/roadmap/pectra/maxeb/).
</AlertDescription>
</AlertContent>
</Alert>

## Exiting staking entirely {#exiting-staking-entirely}

Providing a withdrawal address is required before _any_ funds can be transferred out of a validator account balance.

> Users looking to exit staking entirely and withdraw their full balance back must initiate a "voluntary exit". This can be done in two ways:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users looking to exit staking entirely and withdraw their full balance back must initiate a "voluntary exit." This can be done in two ways:
```

Author: Uh oh @mnelsonBT... Correct one gotta correct them all 🤣... another one of those content standardization rules we haven't (but should) set.

- **Using withdrawal credentials**: Trigger an exit from the execution layer using your withdrawal address, without needing access to the validator signing key. This requires a transaction and costs gas.

The process of a validator exiting from staking takes variable amounts of time, depending on how many others are exiting at the same time. Once complete, this account will no longer be responsible for performing validator network duties, is no longer eligible for rewards, and no longer has their ETH "at stake". At this time the account will be marked as fully “withdrawable”.

Once an account is flagged as "withdrawable", and withdrawal credentials have been provided, there is nothing more a user needs to do aside from wait. Accounts are automatically and continuously swept by block proposers for eligible exited funds, and your account balance will be transferred in full (also known as a "full withdrawal") during the next <a href="#validator-sweeping" customEventOptions={{ eventCategory: "Anchor link", eventAction: "Exiting staking entirely (sweep)", eventName: "click" }}>sweep</a>.

> ## When were staking withdrawals enabled? {#when}

Reviewer: At this stage, should this be moved to FAQs (instead of being a dedicated section)?

Author: Or an "Infrequently Asked Question" perhaps?? -- could probably just ditch this whole section at this point

Reviewer: Agreed @wackerow - think we may as well move this to FAQ to keep it for posterity, but generally don't think this is useful as a main section anymore.

<AlertEmoji text="🕛"/>
<AlertContent>
<AlertDescription>

> Think about an analogue clock. The hand on the clock points to the hour, progresses in one direction, doesn’t skip any hours, and eventually wraps around to the beginning again after the last number is reached.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Think about an analog clock. The hand on the clock points to the hour, progresses in one direction, doesn’t skip any hours, and eventually wraps around to the beginning again after the last number is reached.
```
language guide - american english convention

> Now instead of 1 through 12, imagine the clock has 0 through N _(the total number of validator accounts that have ever been registered on the consensus layer, over 500,000 as of Jan 2023)._

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now instead of 1 through 12, imagine the clock has 0 through N _(N being the total number of validator accounts that have ever been registered on the consensus layer, over 1.2 million as of April 2026)._
```

1. **Has a withdrawal address been provided?** If no withdrawal address has been provided, the account is skipped and no withdrawal initiated.
2. **Is the validator exited and withdrawable?** If the validator has fully exited, and we have reached the epoch where their account is considered to be "withdrawable", then a full withdrawal will be processed. This will transfer the entire remaining balance to the withdrawal address.

> 3. **Does the balance exceed the maximum effective balance?** For legacy (Type 1) validators, this threshold is 32 ETH. For compounding (Type 2) validators, this threshold is 2048 ETH. If the account has withdrawal credentials, is not fully exited, and has balance above its threshold, a partial withdrawal will be processed which transfers only the excess to the user's withdrawal address.

Author: Catching this myself, but nuance here: "balance > maxEB" is not fully accurate due to hysteresis zones. An account could technically have a maxEB of 31 with a balance of 32.2 (if it previously dipped, and is climbing back up)... it would need to cross above 32.25 to bump the maxEB back to 32 -- THEN it'd be eligible for the withdrawal

refs:
https://eth2book.info/capella/part2/incentives/balances/#hysteresis
https://www.attestant.io/posts/understanding-validator-effective-balance/

```suggestion
3. **Does the balance exceed its maxed-out effective balance?** For legacy (Type 1) validators, this threshold is 32 ETH. For compounding (Type 2) validators, this threshold is 2048 ETH. If the account has withdrawal credentials, is not fully exited, has an effective balance at the maximum, and has balance above this threshold, then a partial withdrawal will be processed which transfers only the excess to the user's withdrawal address.
```

### Gas free {#gas-free}

Automatic withdrawal sweeps do not require stakers to manually submit a transaction. This means there is **no gas (transaction fee) required** for automatic sweeps, and they do not compete for existing execution layer block space.

Note that [compounding validators](#compounding-validators) who wish to trigger a partial withdrawal below the 2048 ETH threshold must do so manually from the execution layer, which does require gas.

> ### How frequently will I get my staking rewards? {#how-soon}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How frequently will my staking rewards be unlocked and available in my wallet? {#how-soon}
```

> If you are part of a [staking pool](/staking/pools/) or hold staking tokens, you should check with your provider for more details about how staking withdrawals are handled, as each service operates differently.

Reviewer: > <ExpandableCard
title="What if I participate in staking tokens or pooled staking"
eventCategory="FAQ"
eventAction="What if I participate in staking tokens or pooled staking"
eventName="read more"
>If you are part of a [staking pool](/staking/pools/) or hold staking tokens, you should check with your provider for more details about how staking withdrawals are handled, as each service operates differently.

I feel like this should maybe be at (or near) the top of the page, WDYT? Someone staking through a provider that comes across this page would probably be extremely confused up until this point.

Author: Not against that, can patch in a follow-up commit

Reviewer: sounds good, thanks

> In general, users should be free to reclaim their underlying staked ETH, or change which staking provider they utilize. If a particular pool is getting too large, funds can be exited, redeemed, and re-staked with a [smaller provider](https://rated.network/). Or, if you've accumulated enough ETH you could [stake from home](/staking/solo/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In general, when staking through a provider or pool, you should be free to reclaim your underlying staked ETH, or to withdraw and change which staking provider you utilize. If a particular pool is getting too large, staked ETH can be exited, redeemed, and staked again with a [smaller provider](https://rated.network/). Or, if you've accumulated enough ETH, you could [stake from home](/staking/solo/).
```

eventCategory="FAQ"

> eventAction="Do reward payments (partial withdrawals) happen automatically?"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
eventAction="Does claiming network rewards (partial withdrawals) happen automatically?"
```

Reviewer: Distributing rewards to the withdraw address ≠ receiving rewards from the network (reward payments)

Author: I think I see your nuance -- "reward payments" has been terminology used here and on Launchpad to mean effectively "partial withdrawals" (auto-skimmed reward payouts). Not against this adjustment, but just noting.

Author: Also, assuming this adjustment was supposed to be on the `title`.. cc: @konopkja on the `eventAction` name change

eventName="read more">

> For **legacy (Type 1) validators**, yes — as long as your validator has provided a withdrawal address. This must be provided once to initially enable any withdrawals, then reward payments will be automatically triggered every few days with each validator sweep.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For **legacy (Type 1) validators**, yes — as long as your validator has provided a withdrawal address. This must be provided once to enable any withdrawals, then network reward distribution to the withdrawal address will be automatically triggered every few days with each validator sweep.
```

Author: (Same with em dash usage correction)

```suggestion
For **legacy (Type 1) validators**, yes—as long as your validator has provided a withdrawal address. This must be provided once to enable any withdrawals, then network reward distribution to the withdrawal address will be automatically triggered every few days with each validator sweep.
```

> For **compounding (Type 2) validators**, rewards compound into the effective balance rather than being swept. Automatic sweeps only occur for balance exceeding 2048 ETH. To withdraw rewards below this threshold, you must manually trigger a partial withdrawal from the execution layer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For **compounding (Type 2) validators**, rewards compound into the validator's effective balance (up to 2048 ETH) rather than being swept to the withdrawal address. Automatic sweeps only occur for balances exceeding 2048 ETH. To withdraw rewards below this threshold, you must manually trigger a partial withdrawal from the execution layer.
```

> No, if your validator is still active on the network, a full withdrawal will not happen automatically. This requires manually initiating a voluntary exit.

Reviewer: The framing of this question and its answer are a bit unclear. 
The intention is to ask if the validator can be automatically removed from the staking process (I think?) 
"No, if your validator is still active on the network," is technically accurate, but in general, doesn't cover what 'still active' means, so it glosses over the fact that 1) exiting staking requires manual action, unless 2) the validator is slashed or 3) the validator's effective balance drops below 16 ETH (inactivity leaks/minor penalties), and in the case of 2 or 3 it will be automatically ejected. 

This doesn't necessarily feel like the appropriate place to explain slashing and/or inactivity leak - I'm not sure that level of info is helpful here. But it is unclear what the point of this question is as currently framed. What is the reader supposed to take away from this info? What are they actually trying to understand here? 

Just riffing here @wackerow if you have any ideas; I am not 100% certain. I'm wondering if something like "When do full withdrawals happen?", "How do I stop staking and withdraw my ETH?", or "How do I initiate a full withdrawal?" might be more useful. WDYT? 
Maybe I am overthinking it.

Author: I think you're right—the question feels a bit un-prompted, or poorly worded at the least. Of course they don't happen automatically—why would the network suddenly just fully withdrawal your balance?

> "When do full withdrawals happen?", "How do I stop staking and withdraw my ETH?", or "How do I initiate a full withdrawal?"

Any of these three would probably be better, with the answer still containing a note that it requires a manual intervention (optionally adding "unless slashed/ejected")... Perhaps a short note of clarity that "active" basically means "have not yet exited, either manually or forced via slashing."

> Once a validator has completed the exiting process, and assuming the account has withdrawal credentials, the remaining balance will _then_ be withdrawn during the next <a href="#validator-sweeping" customEventOptions={{ eventCategory: "Anchor link", eventAction: "FAQ happen automatically (sweep)", eventName: "click" }}>validator sweep</a>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once a validator has completed the exit process, and assuming the validator account has registered its withdrawal credentials, the remaining staked balance will _then_ be withdrawn during the next <a href="#validator-sweeping" customEventOptions={{ eventCategory: "Anchor link", eventAction: "FAQ happen automatically (sweep)", eventName: "click" }}>validator sweep</a>.
```

</ExpandableCard>

<ExpandableCard title="Can I withdraw a custom amount?"
eventCategory="FAQ"
eventAction="Can I withdraw a custom amount?"
eventName="read more">

> For **legacy (Type 1) validators**, withdrawals are pushed automatically, transferring any ETH that is not actively contributing to stake. This includes full balances for accounts that have completed the exiting process. It is not possible to manually request specific amounts of ETH to be withdrawn for Type 1 validators.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For **legacy (Type 1) validators**, any ETH network rewards that have accrued over the validator's 32 ETH effective balance are automatically pushed to the withdrawal address. Type 1 validators that have submitted a full withdrawal transaction and completed the staking exit process have their full ETH balance withdrawn to their withdrawal address. It is not possible for a Type 1 validator to manually request specific amounts of ETH to be withdrawn. 
```

> **Compounding (Type 2) validators** can trigger partial withdrawals of a specific amount from the execution layer, as long as the remaining balance stays at or above 32 ETH. This requires a transaction and costs gas.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Compounding (Type 2) validators** can trigger partial withdrawals of a specific amount from the execution layer, as long as the validator's remaining balance stays at or above 32 ETH. This requires submitting a partial withdrawal transaction and costs gas.
```

> eventAction="I operate a validator. Where can I find more information on enabling withdrawals?"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
eventAction="I operate a validator. Where can I find more information about managing the withdrawal process?"
```

Author: cc: @konopkja

> No. Once a validator has exited and its full balance has been withdrawn, any additional funds deposited to that validator will automatically be transferred to the withdrawal address during the next validator sweep. To re-stake ETH, a new validator must be activated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
No. Once a validator has exited and its full balance has been withdrawn, any additional ETH deposited to that validator will automatically be transferred to the withdrawal address during the next validator sweep. To begin staking again using that ETH, you must activate a new validator. 
```

</ExpandableCard>

<ExpandableCard
title="What is the difference between legacy and compounding validators?"
eventCategory="FAQ"
eventAction="What is the difference between legacy and compounding validators?"
eventName="read more">

> Legacy validators use **Type 1** withdrawal credentials and have an effective balance capped at 32 ETH. Any excess is automatically swept to the withdrawal address every few days.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Legacy validators use **Type 1** withdrawal credentials (withdrawal credential address starts with 0x01) and have an effective balance capped at 32 ETH. Any excess ETH received as network rewards is automatically swept to the withdrawal address every few days.
```

> Compounding validators use **Type 2** withdrawal credentials and can have an effective balance up to 2048 ETH. Rewards compound into their effective balance, increasing the validator's weight on the network and future rewards. Automatic sweeps only occur for balance exceeding 2048 ETH. To withdraw below this threshold, a manual partial withdrawal must be triggered from the execution layer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Compounding validators use **Type 2** withdrawal credentials (withdrawal credential address starts with 0x02) and can have an effective balance up to 2048 ETH. Rewards compound into the validator's effective balance, increasing the validator's weight on the network and potential to receive future rewards. Automatic sweeps only occur for balance exceeding 2048 ETH. To withdraw ETH below this threshold, a manual partial withdrawal must be triggered from the execution layer.
```
